hi welcome everyone this is the IP FS
All Hands call for the 13th of January
2020 happy new year if it is the first
Colleen in this year and I'm going to
ask you to add your names to the meeting
notes the link I will post on the chat
and we have one agenda item which is me
talking about ipfs cluster and
collaborative clusters and the clusters
that we launched but if you want to add
additional agenda items you are welcome
but we have until we have 24 minutes
more in this code shall we start
okay let's start by saying that we had a
new cluster is a new idea first cluster
release by the end of December and this
release adds a new binary a new
application called IPS cluster follow
this application is made to make it very
simple for anyone to join what we call a
collaborative cluster a collaborative
cluster is an IDF s cluster which allows
random people to join that cluster and
participate in to Amin what that cluster
is supposed to pin so basically it is a
way to collaborate in backing up
something that you will consider a
useful archive with other users which
are potentially random without having to
trust those who values which the only
people that you trust in this cluster
are the cluster maintainer or the
cluster publisher of which you will have
essentially at least
of trusted peers for those that don't
know what a bi PFS pastor is it is an
additional obligation unless you're not
demon which runs side by side to your go
idea fest note and it will use the API
the local API offered by that but that
note to basically trigger actions like
pinning and unpinning and a couple
others the interesting thing there is
that all these clustered beers that run
side by side with the IPF SP you will
join a network usually a private network
but as I say with collaborative clusters
a parallel network that potentially
anyone can join and they will use that
network to agree on a common state and
that common state is a shirt against it
it's a shared list of items that they
are supposed to be pinning each on on
their own idea of estimate the result is
that those items are not only the CID of
the thing that they're supposed to pin
but they may also contain additional
information for example faster pins have
an names attached they can have
something like expiration dates in which
they will be automatically unpinned
and they have replication factors
replication factors may not have too
much sense in collaborative clusters
because you you cannot trust whether
people are effectively being content or
not for that we have five own which runs
great lengths into ensuring that people
are storing what they're supposed to pin
but replication factors have a lot of
sense when you're running a cluster of
peers that you actually control and you
want with this review how many of your
peers should actually pin certain
content along with this release a few
days later
we launched something called Cola ipfs
cluster that I oh I'm gonna baste it in
the chart and I'm gonna stop sharing my
screen in a minute
let's see can you tell me whether you
are able to see the screen yes that's
perfect thank you soon for not letting
me down this time
as you can see co-op I'll give a
disgusted that I always a very simple
website which has a list of clusters
that we set up and these are
collaborative clusters meaning we have
launched a cluster in this case they
have two trusted peers so two beers
which are able to modify the pin set in
that cluster two clues that we control
and for each of those clusters we have
added an archive which is not too big
and which we consider interesting for
example the file going burns which are
necessary to launch the piping the Lotus
implementation on a test meant Network
we added some books in Spanish from the
Gutenberg Project which has three mats
very good selection of Fremont's every
book which is free - has no copyright or
anything in the world but of course
that's a very sizable archive so I
started adding the Spanish section of it
and also we have another cluster for
ipfs websites which means
i BFS I elderly p2p website the cluster
website the docs website and so on and
as you can see the yummy necessarily
seem to join this clusters is to
download the new ipfs custard follow
application which is available in this
ipfs io along with go idea face and the
other applications and run in a single
command which is a TFS faster follow
five going run and in and the image URL
I'm going to blame what this that's
particularly time I can do that for
example by showing you life on screen
which is essentially more interesting so
I'm gonna stop this share and I'm gonna
share a terminal can you confirm that
you see a terminal yeah let me get a
little bit bigger Texas well better so
one notch bigger that's the biggest I
can go right now okay it's great this is
X term and this is defined as huge font
size just just move closer to your
screen just what yeah well okay like
this
why does am I going to do I'm going to
download
I prefer custard followed from the
beginning so an outside window I'm going
to system the latest fashion and now I
can run it if I run in without any
arguments you will see that it says I
have confirmation for two for our
viewers this is one nice in the IDF
asked us to follow is that it allows you
to actually run several custard years
several follower tiers in parallel so
that you can be tracking several
archives at the same time and I can for
example remove the the guttenberg
collection for example and we can
initialize it from the beginning if I
run a cluster follow now it just tells
me I have one and the only thing I need
to do now is to go to co-op ipfs classes
that I own and copy paste the command
but this is going to do is to initialize
my cluster beer give it an identity and
after that it is going to fetch a
configuration from this cluster here
from Gutenberg yes collab ipfs cluster
that IO how does it fetch it
it is not actually fetching through HTTP
HTTP this is configured as a DMS link so
it's going to resolve to an IP office
address
and it's going to use ipfs to actually
fetch that configuration that will make
my beer run with the optimal parameters
well optimal with the necessary
parameters to connect to this cluster in
particular in order to connect to this
custom in particular we need a Buster
secret and I will need the list of
trusted peers for for the tester and I
will need the addresses of those peers
alike so that I can connect and I can
bootstrap to them that's right that
unsuccessful request of course because
this is a life Bheema it won't let me it
won't let me do what I wanted to do but
I can work around that
a hectare for the sake of the recording
could you explain just a little bit what
happens and you know in two sentences
yes what happens is that I is trying to
resolve the IP Anette address which is
Gutenberg and the score is called a BFS
custom that I hope and it is I mean it's
basically not responding with my idea
first thing is a valid string and
honestly cements that I've never seen in
my life
but I'm very quickly just going to find
out
but the actual ipfs hash for that
cooperation is and that way we can
directly bootstrap yeah I don't think
underscore is a valid dearness character
[Music]
yeah it should actually be a - but my
problem is that this error is not
complaining about that let's thank you
for noticing in the meantime I figure
out the hash so I can actually put strap
using the local gateway with the hash
what I'm going to do now is to
reinitialize good
it seems that was more likely than as we
see and the block messages we
initialized appear and it just launched
a class appear be connected to to the
truss type you said um it is right now
sinking all the pins in this archive
there should be around 400 I believe 400
and something you can do this any time
so peers can come and go anytime if I if
I stop the beer now I could too
restarted and I would get up to the
latest version of the archive and if I
send that to the background and I run I
get those clustered follow now you see
that I had ideas classic follow good
number guess which is again reconfigured
and if I if I call this command with
that tracer name it will I will be able
to perform actions directly on that
cluster so for example I can list all
the pins which are listed on that
Chester the screen is a bit narrow but
do you see that it says the state pinned
the CID and then it would list the pin
name which corresponds in this case to
the name of the book that we are finan
if I do an info command I'm able to see
information for this cursor here
specifically like where the confirmation
folder is where the configuration source
URL is and whether I am online the funny
thing other good thing here is that I
can actually stop the beer all the
arrows that you see is because it didn't
finished pinning on ipfs didn't finish
going through that queue of 400 items
but I can run info also when my follower
Pierre is not running and in that case
it will tell me that the cluster beer is
not online
the ipfs beer is online though and i
cannot also list the items in the
archive while I'm on of offline so I
don't need to run my gear to know what
items that cluster beers in it and those
are interesting things to do because you
yeah you can basically inspect but the
archive is about without having to
relaunch your beer so I say you can stop
and you can start start your gear again
with with the wrong command it will go
back it will reconnect it will actually
keep track of other class servers and
this cluster and try to recognize
to them and so on and catch up to the
latest version of the archive and start
repeating again going through the going
through the cues peers are not trusted
you will be able to connect to them you
the the ipfs forms will probably be
connected directly but those peers don't
have access to you to making operations
in the cluster or accessing information
from your peer directly for example
after appear that you do not trust it's
not able to know whether you are pinning
something at a certain moment or three
here any operation in you or obtain any
information other than your cluster peer
ID and so on so the the trusted peers
however they can just like they can been
using your passive view they can also
potentially check whether you are
pinning something or you have an error
when pinning something or are you
finished at this point I would like to
open the room for for questions I'm
gonna stop the this green shirt and I'm
sorry for the little problems that we
had I'm gonna have to verify that
question from Peter yes Hector could you
clarify how to you how do you mark
appear as trusted or untrusted is it
only a static configuration for now or
there is some smarts where as well you
cannot propagate its memories it is it
is a list of peers in the configuration
but the thing here is that since we use
these remote confirmations that you
fetch you fetch that confirmation every
time you start you don't fetch it only
when you initialize therefore the stores
can update the compression
basically budget right you we can
basically add new beers to that
configuration and whenever the followers
are restarted they will pick up the
changes and I guess this why you use IPM
s so that you can update it to
synchronously behind the scenes and
exactly those are will resolve it
together yes there is we will use in DNS
link for that yeah
so we we update the DNS but if we don't
update the DNS then you will essentially
reserve to us yet I see any that you
already had locally in your ipfs demon
so you don't have to you don't even pay
the price of of going to some remote
server to fetch your confirmation you
you're basically loading local any other
questions if there are no other
questions I'll ask one more Hector when
you were thinking things if the info
message was bringing out CR DT updated
this year DT updated that what do we use
here that is for within host result I am
glad you asked the way that the
Gloucester beers sink their estate sink
their pin sets to ensure that everyone
has a cyclist in vision is you sense
realities so there is a distributed ERD
T key value store and it is actually a
miracle CL it is a sea LED which is
backed by ipfs blocks but we get from
that is that you can sync the CR DT from
any you can sync the state from any of
the participating creation by just
fetching back the bad thing there is
that here essentially building a block
chain therefore it will tend to grow the
more things you've been in the cluster
the no longer this chain will be and
there's where you need like
potentially you will need like more
optimizations if you have many hundreds
of thousand items pinned in the gutter
it may be as lower for a new node that
has to sink from the very beginning to
actually fetch all the parts all the
nodes there there's some more cards
thanks sorry
no no good for it can you speak to how
that works
this grtt I think that's kind of a
common problem right and wanting to have
like a tree that needs to be synced the
fact is that American mecha docks are
essentially a structures they only grow
so just like rock change you always
append at the root therefore they are
very similar to grow only sets and grow
only sets they're essentially our only
set this is that you interpret it and
traverse it in certain ways grow only
sets are well-known civt
the characteristic of all CRE disease is
that they are they inflate the the
states they're usually don't get smaller
they inflate at least four state-based
realities for operation based realities
you need certain characteristics in your
network balancer operation delivery and
so on for a state-based realities you
have things which basically inflate and
this is similar to a state by see oddity
except it is synced more efficiently
taking advantage of with the ipfs and
and the fact that you only need to to
ship the new blocks around not the whole
thing every time
anyone have more questions doctors yeah
so one other question is what is it
actually used to do the thinking is that
using bit swap or graph think oh it's
fat underneath and this is a stack which
is its idea first light
so it's bit surplus DHD plus pops up on
some bucks a piece used to to propagate
the new when you pin something there
will be a broadcast and the new cid is
broadcasted and then every peer in the
cluster will use beats fact if you copy
the new blocks it's essentially ipfs
it's essentially an application on top
of all the ipfs things imagined the
replication factor is the case that
every single pair will have every single
block or is there is it possible to run
a collab cluster which shows up inside
and I guess how the beam says everyone
will have it they need to have it
because that that's the state so in
order to know if they they need to I met
the set of pins that have they pinned
all the things now how they've been
other things in the case of of the
collaborative clusters that they that we
set up everyone will everyone we've been
everything but I say you have you have
the possibility of setting different
replication factories per item what that
will do is to choose the peers in your
cluster which have most free space as
reported by ipfs so there's an a storage
max confirmation value in ipfs so
knowing how many how much of the repo
storage we have used and what that
compression value is
can calculate how much ipfs free space
you have and it will rank them according
to free space and I will it will assign
based on that so if you say your
replication factor 3 will pick up 3 3
beer sweets with the most free space and
send the pins to those specifically but
as I say if you're running in a
untrusted open cluster it will be very
easy for someone to simulate other
opinion something and they're actually
not or to simulate that they have
infinite free space so we're just saying
now everyone pins everything and we
don't do that selection if you
moderately trust the fusion your cluster
then you can actually say well depending
on how many beers you are and so on you
can start setting replication factors
works ok we are at time see that no one
any agenda items so I'm going to just
thank you for coming to this call for
varied I'm sorry again that the Saints
didn't work right away
it was great thank factor sorry the demo
gods didn't support you see have a great
time thank you